Now to finish this up and make sure we can restart the quiz from inside that result screen,
let's make sure that in the result screen, we also have a button we can press to reset our question progress
and for that, we need to add a button below our text.
How do we do that?
How do we add things below other things, widgets below other widgets?
Well, we need a column. So let's wrap our text in our column
and previously I did this manually but actually with the Flutter extension installed in the IDE, we
can do some automatic refactoring. For this, use the refactoring shortcut which can find in your key bindings
if you're not sure which shortcut that was and position your cursor, so click on the text here and
then press that shortcut and you should now get a couple of options here
and normally, one of them is wrapped with column. If you don't have that, you can at least wrap it with a
new widget and manually create a column.
I do have it here however, so I will press enter and now we automatically have this wrapped in a column
and text is
now already in the children array here. If we save that, now we see the centering is lost,
that is the default behavior because the column by default takes all the available height of the viewport,
so of the screen and for the moment we'll ignore that,
we'll dive deeper into the depths of columns and rows and layouting in a separate section,
so for now let's live with that and let's instead focus on adding an extra button below the text.
We could add another RaisedButton here but I will add a FlatButton,
FlatButton is basically a button without a background color, other than that, it's a normal button.
It needs a child which is basically the content displayed on the button
and here, a text will do
and I will say restart quiz and we also, just like on the RaisedButton,
need an onPressed handler. Now you know that onPressed needs a function reference, the address of a function
and restarting actually is some logic that probably has to be done in the main.dart file
because that is where we manage our current question index and the total score and both needs to be
reset to zero in order to restart.
So in the main.dart file in the MyAppState class, we can add a new method, reset quiz or whatever you
want to call it
and the goal here is to set both question index as well as total score back to zero because if we do
reset that to zero, especially when we reset the question index, when we do that inside of set state which
we of course have to do,
so inside of the function which we pass to set state, if we do that, then you know that the build method
of this MyAppState class will be re-triggered, it will rebuild that tree and therefore also re-evaluate
that condition and find out that
now our question index is smaller than our question length again and hence not render the result anymore
but the quiz and
that's exactly what we want.
So now we have a reset function that should do the trick,
well we need it here in main.dart, in our MyAppState class
but we want to trigger it from inside the result widget. However that is something we did before as
well,
we simply need to pass a pointer to that function, to the result widget. So I pass reset quiz without
parentheses to the result widget and in the result widget, we now need to accept this.
So I'll add another property, a function which is my reset handler or whatever you want to call it
and I will accept this as a second argument,
so here whatever I receive as a second argument is now stored in reset handler and that is now what
I bind to onPressed.
So here, we can bind reset handler and with that if we now save this, we see restart quiz,
if I press that, indeed we restart. Now to make this stand out a little bit more, we can add some color,
some text color here to the FlatButton and maybe use blue here, so that we can see that button a
bit better,
so now if I press that, we can dive in again. This is all looking good,
we can now reset this.
I won't argue, the user interface itself is not the most beautiful one I've ever seen but we'll learn
more about building user interfaces, styling your applications and also layouting, so that we can also
center vertically when we're using a column, something we lost for now. We'll dive into all that later
throughout the course. For the moment,
we had an extensive look at all the core basics you need to know about Flutter.